/    FCX2013 GENERAL BODY MEETING MINUTES     \
| https://pad.riseup.net/p/FCX2013Generalbody |
\                                             /
 --------------------------------------------- 
                      \
                       \
                        \
                         ▄▀▀▄▄▄        
                        ▄▀▀▄▄  ▀▄      
                    ▄▄ ▄▄▄▄  ▀▄▄▄      
                    ▄▀▄▄  ▄▄▄▀         
                   ▄▀ ▄▀▄▀▄▄ ▄▄ ▀  ▄   
                     ▄▀ ▀▄ ▀▄   ▀   ▀▄ 
                   ▄▄  ▀▄▄▄▄▄     ▄  ▀▄
                   ▄▄     ▀▄ ▄▄  ▄  ▀▄ 
                     ▀    ▀▀▀▀    ▄▄▀  
                  ▀▄▄▄▄▀            ▀▀ 
   ▀ ▀▀▀▀▀▄▄        ▀▄▄    ▄▄▀    ▀    
    ▄▀  ▄▄▄ ▀▄ ▄▄▄▄▄   ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀        
  ▄▀▄▀▀▀ ▄▄ ▀▄▀     ▀▀▄▄▄▀▀   ▀▄       
 ▄▀ ▀  ▀▄ ▀▀▀▄ ▀▀▀  ▀▄▀▄   ▀ ▀▀▀       
   ▄▀ ▄▀       ▄▀▀           ▄         
 ▀▄   ▀  ▀▄   ▀▄▄ ▀                    
  ▀▄ ▄   ▀  ▀▄      ▄▀▄▀   ▀▄▀         
    ▀ ▀▄    ▄▀   ▄ ▀▀▀▄▄       ▄       
        ▀        ▄▀▀     ▀▀▀ ▄  ▀▄     
          ▄▀                ▀▄         
                  ▀▄           ▀▄      
               ▀▄▄             ▀       
           ▄ ▀   ▀▀▀    ▀▄ ▄▄ ▀▄       
          ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀        ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀       
          
Q: How is the Free Culture Foundation different from the Wikimedia Foundation?


3 reasons for the name change:

    a lot of the work of free culture involves people who are not students. 

    FCF can be a bridge as a movement based organization.

    thinking about the ecosystem around free culture- there are many orgs that work on different pieces of what FC is interested in (EFF, creative commons, 
public knowledge, open knowledge foundation)

    reframing Free culture as a SOCIAL JUSTICE issue.


Examining what Free culture as a movement needs, cross out things that other orgs are doing, and fill the gaps so that we can be an efficient org.

Will result in some sort of governance change - but how it will change is TBD.

FOUNDATION??
Will be using the term "Foundation" in the name in the loose sense as it's broadened in our ecosystem.

Possible grant application by Jennifer to be able to bring a structure for those who are nonstudents to participate and help in the organizational operations.


How many chapters are there now? Unknown - no chapters are removed from the list. 
Really exciting chapters in Canada - interested in some classic and some different issues
Chapter vibrancy comes & goes as those in leadership roles change and students graduate / churn

Core Foundation becoming an "idea"/"repository" for chapters all over the world

We need to make TONS of educational resources that can be reused by others. Help tie the movement into other movements so we can leverage other social movements 
and plug into them to make the movement more meaningful.

Of the 58 chapters listed, there are about half that have been active in the past year. Should use this as an opportuntity to ourselves and the outsidew world 
to propvide visibility into our chapters' activites.

    -around 20 chapters were able to vote in last years elections

    -Building up community to Free Culture Alliance (coevents with Wikimedia, OpenITP)


This could be a way to bring visibility to the energy around the area.
 -Anti SOPA/Pipa in Spain was a massive societal mobilization (80% support - Occupy-style protest)
 -Could be an opportunity to go into metapolitics and bring the movements politics to a broader agenda
 -Opportunity to reframe Free Culture as a social justice issue | technology as something we live in and not alongside


Chapter technology support
 - wiki has gone rather inactive
 - Used to host wordpress for chapters but had some drawbacks
 - Wiki could/should be used as the central way to develop educational resources
 
 
Election Reform (Jen)
 - This year the board was 3 people instead of 5
 -- One of the board members never showed up online after getting elected
 - Option to open the board to nonstudent members
 -- Have a variety of all students and backgrounds in it
 -- Should there be a process to have board activity tracked and responsibilities
 -- at Free Culture Summit in berkely last year there was an assignment of new roles for board (conference, tech director, campaigns and outreach director)
 --- New Member director based in Dubai
 --- We're an international organization but most of our chapters are in the US
 --- Should the new chapter director be based in the US?
 -- Consider having a different governance structure other than boards
 --- Possibly decide what kind of organizational goals we have then decide how to best govern
 --- Loosely decided group of people on a listserv?
 -- Don't want to lose the student chapter base that we have and keep the passion of students and student activity at the heart of it
 -- Wiki as a core conduit / media remix center to promote artwork and fliers to drive the message
 --- Wiki could look like the Ubuntu Local Community Teams
 
 Looking at other organization structures that could work for us as a strong model
 
Can you kick someone off the board?
- processes for an inactive boardmember to be replaced exists

Could allow the creation of chapters outside universities

Should free culture start requiring member dues?
 - We could if we're doing things that requrie lots of funding, but that requires we go back to the disucssion of what we are going after as an organization


Resolving to open the board to nonstudent members
 -Should there be a quota of students to nonstudents
 -- there are multiple boards here
 - One is the board that's on the tax stuff - the meta organization
 - Then there are the chapter boards
 There are actually 3 boards:

         There's the NY state tax filings board and for future 501c(3) filings

    (Jen, Kyra, and Susana Losa are listed as members there for the purposes of filing)

    Then there's the meta-organization:

    Probably going to organize the confrerence next year, roll out tech infrastructure

    Then there are the chapter organizations


Resolution deferred so those who are not in the room can have a voice

Resolution to do away with the roles of the board (i.e. conference coordinator, technologist).


Is there a better way for us to communicate with each other? Is discuss@freeculture.org effective?


TO DO:

    Make the Board more transparent- post more updates.

    begin to collect resources for our new repository

    EVERYONE create a list of ALL the issues we want to get involved with, and we'll take it from there, whitling down what we want to be involved with.

    Create a calendar of deadlines.

    TOM LEVINE will revive "the thread."

    This summer, take advantage of the fact that we ARE a foundation. Get everyone to come together this summer, over a very concrete time span (EVERYONE WAKE 
UP), have a JAM SESSION. Nothing will be finished, but we'll be at a state where a core group can get ideas to maturity.


NEXT STEPS:

    Build a list of things to do on our discuss list

    Videoconference next week: Sunday, April 28th @ 3pm EDT.

    2nd videoconference- 2 Sundays from April 28th.

    3rd videoconference- 2 Sundays from that Sunday ^.

    Help facilitate the organization of local meetups for brainstorming, sprinting on materials, spread word about reboot - ACTION WEEK! \o/  Perhaps this 
summer?  Balance momentum/variety of speed with sustainability



Successful conference - people were engaged, unusually great # of people discussing free culture issues - most attendance since 2011.  Important to have our own 
Free Culture Conference to revel in free culture.  People were engaged & learned how to apply free culture principles for advocacy.  Got next steps started.

    Turnout 2nd day was lower.


(standing O for Jen)

Thanks for coming!

Get on the mailing list.
We have an IRC channel.  Start visiting - #freeculture on Freenode.





